TL;DR


An editor’s note for those who hate to scroll. This guide is roughly parsed into two parts:


1. An introduction to the Mosaik values, team, community, and some ideas and thoughts on how to collaborate to be a most excellent community member
2. The nitty gritty on login info, appliances, space usage, event space hire, and much, much more. 


Check out the content outline in the left sidebar to get an overview of the topics we cover, or find an answer to a specific question you have. We hope you’ll take the time to explore and add to any of the information below in our github repo. More on this later.


The Mosaik Membership Guide
aka How To be a Most Excellent Community Member


Start Here


Hi, I’m Csongor, CEO of Mosaik, and I want to give you a warm welcome to our Mosaik community. Above all, we’re so happy you’re here. To us, community is everything, and the fact that you’ve chosen to participate in ours couldn’t make us happier. 


In my former life, pre-Mosaik, I was always obsessed with creating new and better ways to help startups in Budapest flourish. Years of building relationships, organizing meetups, getting awesome speakers to meet us and our city, and getting our awesome startups to see the world, this has defined my career, and I’ve brought this enthusiasm and drive to its own home in Mosaik.


If you’re here for the same reasons, we’re already helping each other. This place is for you, and we would love to see you use the tools and platforms at Mosaik to help you grow, and thereby help Mosaik grow. We are a young organization, and we expect to develop and change a lot, quickly.


One thing we know will be constant -- Our culture of community. No matter how many members we have, how many events we throw, or how many pots of coffee we brew, we will always be the friendliest and most open, collaborative community in Budapest. Thanks for taking part.




How to Use this Guide
When you’re looking through our guide, we’d like you to keep one thing in mind. We created this book as a compass, a guide, a north star if you will, to help give you some context and information about how we operate. But keeping an open mind, collaborating, and continuously learning are all values that we take extremely seriously, and this applies to our guide as well!


You’ll notice we haven’t printed our book, and that’s because we’re constantly adding to it, developing it, and changing it accordingly. If you have any thoughts or suggestions, let us know. 


Or better yet…


Make It Better Yourself
Our handbook will also be available as an opensource project on GitHub. We’ve engineered it so that it’s constantly ready for improvement and new development -- to submit a change simply make a pull request and add your contribution!
If you already know how to make edits and submit pull requests via Github, you know how this works.
If you don't, but want a lesson in using GitHub, post a message on Slack!
Look for a TODO on the bottom of pages where further development is required if you need help getting started on contributing.


























An Introduction to Mosaik
Let’s start with why:


Mosaik is staffed by a team of tech and startup enthusiasts, personal developers, and community organizers. Each one of us is powered everyday by encouraging others to unlock their creative and entrepreneurial potential. As community builders, we recognize that the most efficient way to maximize our potential is to work together, in one collaborative living room. 


From there on out, our task was simple -- we set about partnering with the community and engineering a community platform in our beloved city of Budapest, where local entrepreneurs can flourish.


The Mosaik Manifesto:
WE BELIEVE IN THE POWER OF ENTREPRENEURS
The unreasonable ones. The ones who solve our problems, create our jobs, and push the world forward.
WE BELIEVE IN THE POWER OF BUDAPEST
Budapest is on the rise. Fast. With a budding startup ecosystem, vibrant downtown scene and affordable lifestyle. It's like a magnet for young talent. Couple that with a convenient location in the heart of Europe and you have the perfect place to launch and explore your dream project.
WE BELIEVE IN THE POWER OF COMMUNITY
At Mosaik we’re building a tribe of engineers, designers, creatives, and tech innovators. We’re building this tribe to lead a movement. We’re leading a movement to change a city. And we’re changing a city to improve the tech startup world, especially in Central Eastern Europe..


And we want to have a great time along the way!


Values and Guiding Principles:


Our members and visitors work and grow across a wide range of industries and products -- you’ll find FinTech startups working next to the latest and greatest mobile app, and bumping elbows with world class IT engineers making the next disruptive technology. So what binds us all together? Quite simply, it’s the way we approach life. In times of both triumph or failure, we count on our community members to respond with a mindset of positivity and growth.


Check it out.
LIFELONG LEARNING
A fascination with the world. Realising that everything can be a learning opportunity, if you choose it to be.
COLLABORATION
1 +1 = 10. Working together to fill gaps and improve the community rather than duplicating efforts.
OPENNESS
Being an active listener. Always being prepared to share, adopt or challenge new ideas, thoughts, tools, or people.
INTENTION
Crafting the life you want. Never settling. Why spend your life working on something you don't love?
COMMUNITY
The incredible things that can happen when people with energy, ambition and shared values come together to create a future they believe in.
POSITIVITY
Recognizing that some failure is inevitable when trying something new, and when it comes, embracing it gracefully, to find the learnings in every experience and relationship.
TECHNOLOGY
Finding purposeful, constructive ways to use technology to shape our rapidly changing, increasingly interconnected world.




Questions?


You’ve got questions, we’ve got answers!


The best way to learn more about Mosaik is to ask one of our staff members, or better yet, get the full low down from one of our awesome members! If you’ve got specific questions about membership, upcoming events visit our reception area or catch one of our lovely team members at any point!


Who are we?


Csongor Bias (csongor@mosaik.space) - CEO & Co-founder 


Zoltan Vorobcsuk (zoli@mosaik.space) - Operations Manager


Norbert Dragán (norbert@mosaik.space) - Marketing Manager


Alyssa Puhacz (alyssa@mosaik.space) - Community & Events Operations 


Reka Forgach (reka@mosaik.space) - Chief Community Developer


Nandor Laklia (nandor@mosaik.space) - Fellow


Matthew Symmonds - Fellow[a][b]






























Respecting Mosaik
Aka How to be a Responsible Community Member
Being a member of Mosaik comes with the benefits of connecting, sharing ideas, information, support, and of course coworking in a motivational environment. In exchange, we expect our members to keep some things at the forefront of their minds in taking care of each other and our space:
→ Your equipment & professional liability is your responsibility.
→ Leave any space you use as you found it or better than you found it. 
→ Anyone who behaves in an manner that is destructive to the space or other participants may be asked to leave. This includes excessive noise or loud conversations in quiet workspaces, smelly food in the kitchen or fridge, and desks so cluttered that they affect your neighbors. 
→ Be responsible and respectful using our internet. Bittorrent and porn are absolutely not allowed. Large (1GB+) downloads or uploads during business hours aren't strictly prohibited...but it's rude to hog bandwidth.
→ Respect others’ personal and business privacy, confidentiality, safety, property and data. If you're not sure, ask them.
→ Please no smoking in the courtyard. The smoking area is located at the front entrance of Mosaik, where we kindly ask you to dispose of your cigarette in the ashtray.
→ Respect the neighbors and the rest of the community when you’re in the front of the building. No large groups should congregate to drink/smoke outside. Noise levels outside should be kept to a minimum! Please do not leave any trash in front of the building.. 
This bit of text was also borrowed and modified from our friends at IndyHall in Philadelphia, PA. 












Respecting Each Other
Aka How To Be A Most Excellent Community Member
Being a great member of the Mosaik community happens a bit differently than in some other settings. It's more organic, and less mechanical. We’re a coworking space, not just another networking event. This also means that often, it takes time. Trust is a big deal for us at Mosaik, and it plays a big role in being a great community member.
Here's an observation for consideration:
→ In order to help, someone needs to be ready to accept that help.
→ In order for people to be ready to accept help, they need to be able to be willing to be vulnerable enough to ask for help.
→ Being vulnerable requires establishing trust in the source. People are drawn to trusted sources, not authoritative sources.
→ The difference between establishing authority and trust, in our experience, is being able to show some vulnerability yourself.
This bit of text was also borrowed and modified from our friends at IndyHall in Philadelphia, PA. 
With this in mind, sometimes the best way to give help is to first establish trust, by receiving help rather than offering it. There are lots of ways to do that, of course, but the most effective ways tend to be small and personal rather than a blast to the entire community. Take it one relationship at a time!








The Nitty Gritty
WIFI/Internet usage
* For full time members
Network name: Mosaik 
        Password: earlybirdcoworkers
* Free hour for those who have purchased from the cafe
Network name: Mosaik_Coffee 
Password: Please ask your barista for assistance
* For event guests or drop-ins
Network name: Mosaik_Guest
Password - hustle247
* For private office members
        Network name: Mosaik_Private_Office
        
All paying members and event guests have full access to the Mosaik network with no additional charges. We would like to reiterate our request that you abide by the law when surfing in Mosaik, downloading torrents or streaming adult material is strictly prohibited, unless it is required for professional reasons. If you do work with any kind of adult media, please discuss this separately with the team. Large (1GB+) downloads or uploads during business hours aren't strictly prohibited...but it's rude to hog bandwidth, and if the network is severely hampered due to abnormally large activity we will take measures to fix it.


Slack
The MosaikFamily slack channel is our main channel of communication with all members.
This is where we’ll post updates on Mosaik happenings, community social events, and our latest favorites from 9gag. 
Slack is also where you can ping us/each other with ideas, questions, and feedback. 
If you’ve never used Slack before, you can manually ping a team member with a tap on the shoulder for a quick tutorial!


Nexodus
TODO


Finding a desk
All the desks up at the front of Mosaik, on the left side of the Welcome Area are for everyone to use. They are designed for those who purchase one-day passes, or Club and Flex-desk memberships, but they are available for Full-time members looking for a change of scenery or a place to discuss with each other undisturbed. There are some great standing work stations in this area that we encourage everyone to use at least 3 times a week!  
The main co-working space, in the back of the house on the ground floor, is reserved for Full-time members. On your first day, we will introduce you to the space, and you can pick your desk. If you are with a group of people, we can design an island of desks upon request. Please speak to Alyssa about this. 


Quiet Spaces
The first floor member area is a quiet zone, please refrain from taking phone calls or holding group meetings or loud discussions in this area.


The reception area, cafe, lounge, courtyard, and first floor event spaces are ‘breakout’ areas, where you are welcome to talk, take calls, play ping-pong or hold meetings and discussions.


Food and drink rules
Thursday Community Potluck Luncheon
Every Thursday we host a community Potluck Luncheon for all of our members! 


Everyone is asked to bring a small dish to serve at least 5 people. From here we can all share and experience new foods, flavors, and fun! We’re always open to new themes. If you have an idea, please share it on Slack. 


Coffee shop
TODO




Shared fridge
All members are welcome to use both fridges upstairs and downstairs. Please don’t take anything from the fridge that isn’t yours. Labeling is the best way to keep your food safe from strange hungry hands! Sometimes it’s made clear in the kitchen or on Slack that there is food for everyone to share. In all other cases, please take only what is yours. 


The cleaners will clean out the fridges every Friday evening. Please keep this in mind, and don’t leave your food sitting there for more than a week!


Kitchen areas
Please clean up after yourself, and always use the dishwasher if you’re using Mosaik dishes. A cleaning crew will come every workday evening. So if you come in over the weekend, it’s your responsibility to clean up everything in the kitchen and from your work area. 


Food at your workstation
Messy food is not allowed at the main workstations. Energy bars, bananas and yogurts and similar brain food are welcome, so long as you are conscious of helping us to maintain a clean and tidy space together. Bear in mind that some food can also have a unique and ‘disruptive’ smell for your neighbors, so keep your garlic heavy dishes and such to the smell-safe kitchen zone. 


Where to get food around the Mosaik office?
Take a look at this very handy map of great food places around the Mosaik office. Feel free to add to it yourself! You can also ask for a printed map from the front desk of places to eat, workout, walk and party in the area.


Booking out meeting rooms
Always book your meeting room. Even if the room is empty and you see that no one has booked it for the day, add your meetings to the calendar. This helps avoid conflict and confusion over who is using the space. Currently there is a physical paper to sign on the door. In the future, we will have a property management system for this!


Taking phone calls
Please don’t take phone calls in the main coworking space, in respect of others. The Welcome area, ‘hot desk zone,’ cafe, courtyard, and lounge are all available for this purpose. Also if you plan to pop in  and take a short phone call in a meeting room, we ask that you use the small meeting rooms upstairs first, if available. 


Bringing guests to Mosaik
Members are allowed to sign-in guests to the members area for up to two hours. If a guest is to stay more than that amount of time, they are required to purchase a day apss.
Any guests outside of the Mosaik community must check in at the Welcome area. They’ll be asked to record their name, who they are visiting, time they signed in, and email address. [c][d][e]


Hiring out the event space
Please speak with Csongor Biás - csongor@mosaik.space for all event inquiries and rentals. All Full-time members will receive priority booking and a discount for event space hire. 




Mail
Our mailing address is 1136 Budapest, Pannónia utca 32. All full time members can have their mail sent to the Mosaik office. Please plan to pick up and sign for your own packages. If you want to have a registered company seat at the Mosaik office, you can have this for an extra fee. Please speak to Zoli - zoli@mosaik.space about making this happen. 




Lockers/storage
TODO




Pets
We truly love all animals. With that said..dogs are allowed in the space only if they are well behaved. They will only be allowed in the front of the house, in the cafe and hot desk area. 


If your dog does bark, please refrain from ‘barking’ after it by calling his/her name several times, but rather take him/her out of the premises or give her a treat. Calling out is twice as disruptive as your dog barking in the first place. If you plan on bringing a pet to the building, you will be solely responsible for any injury or damage caused by your pet to other members or their property. Dogs also are not allowed in the outdoor courtyard because of the fake grass. 




Bikes
Bikes are welcomed and encouraged -- let’s fight that smog! You can park your wheels in the courtyard, or by your desk, whether that’s in the main coworking space, upstairs, or in the hot desk zone. 


We are currently planning a proper bike rack area in the Mosaik basement. Stay tuned!




Children & babies
We welcome all families to visit our space. Please understand, no crying babies should be in the main coworking space, or in event space during an event. But we are excited and anticipate showing off the space to your entire family!


 
Heating and air conditioning
If it is over 28 celsius, the A/C will be turned on. If it’s too cold, and bothersome to members, we can discuss turning it off or attaining a temperature that is most comfortable for the majority. 


Replenishing out of stock items
If we’ve run out of stuff (soap, toilet paper etc), please get in contact with Zoli on Slack, or tell the person working from the Welcome area. We are happy to help you and replace anything that needs replacing. Also add the name of your company to the comment section. 




Security
TODO


If stuff breaks
Sometimes you’re playing an especially enthusiastic game of ping-pong. You lunge to the side to backhand that plastic ball to the other side of the court, and boom! Your paddle has suddenly made contact with something less like a ping-pong ball and more like a very breakable lamp. Shattered.


Breaks happen, and sometimes lamps aren’t the worst thing to break. There are also coffee carafes, monitors, other people’s monitors, glass doors, and bones. For the last item we can’t really help you. But for the first few, here are the basics you need to know:


→ If it’s Mosaik property, let the person at the welcome area know. They will help you clean up the shards and dry your tears. It’s important that we know about this, so we can replace it and make sure everything is in working order for others! 


→ If it’s OPP (other people’s property) let them know and try to discuss a reasonable solution between yourselves. We encourage all of our members to be aware of the fact that this is a coworking space, and your property is your own liability. We offer each of our members the option to attain renters insurance, specifically for these cases.
